### Portable Hole

*Wondrous Item, Rare*

This fine black cloth, soft as silk, is folded up to the dimensions of a handkerchief. It unfolds into a circular sheet 6 feet in diameter. You can take a Magic action to unfold a Portable Hole and place it on or against a solid surface, whereupon the Portable Hole creates an extradimensional hole 10 feet deep. The cylindrical space within the hole exists on a different plane of existence, so it can’t be used to create open passages. Any creature inside an open Portable Hole can exit the hole by climbing out of it. You can take a Magic action to close a Portable Hole by taking hold of the edges of the cloth and folding it up. Folding the cloth closes the hole, and any creatures or objects within remain in the extradimensional space. No matter what’s in it, the hole weighs next to nothing. If the hole is folded up, a creature within the hole’s extradimensional space can take an action to make a DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check. On a successful check, the creature forces its way out and appears within 5 feet of the Portable Hole. A closed Portable Hole holds enough air for 1 hour of breathing, divided by the number of breathing creatures inside. Placing a Portable Hole inside an extradimensional space created by a Bag of Holding, Handy Haversack, or similar item instantly destroys both items and opens a gate to the Astral Plane. The gate originates where the one item was placed inside the other. Any creature within 10 feet of the gate and not behind Total Cover is sucked through it and deposited in a random location on the Astral Plane. The gate then closes. The gate is one-way only and can’t be reopened. Potion of Animal Friendship Potion, Uncommon When you drink this potion, you can cast the level 3 version of the Animal Friendship spell (save DC 13). Agitating this potion’s muddy liquid brings little bits into view: a fish scale, a hummingbird feather, a cat claw, or a squirrel hair. Potion of Clairvoyance Potion, Rare When you drink this potion, you gain the effect of the Clairvoyance spell (no Concentration required). An eyeball bobs in this potion’s yellowish liquid but vanishes when the potion is opened. Potion of Climbing Potion, Common When you drink this potion, you gain a Climb Speed equal to your Speed for 1 hour. During this time, you have Advantage on Strength (Athletics) checks to climb. This potion is separated into brown, silver, and gray layers resembling bands of stone. Shaking the bottle fails to mix the colors. Potion of Diminution Potion, Rare When you drink this potion, you gain the “reduce” effect of the Enlarge/Reduce spell for 1d4 hours (no Concentration required). The red in the potion’s liquid continuously contracts to a tiny bead and then expands to color the clear liquid around it. Shaking the bottle fails to interrupt this process. Potion of Flying Potion, Very Rare When you drink this potion, you gain a Fly Speed equal to your Speed for 1 hour and can hover. If you’re in the air when the potion wears off, you fall unless you have some other means of staying aloft. This potion’s clear liquid floats at the top of its container and has cloudy white impurities drifting in it. Potion of Gaseous Form Potion, Rare When you drink this potion, you gain the effect of the Gaseous Form spell for 1 hour (no Concentration required) or until you end the effect as a Bonus Action. This potion’s container seems to hold fog that moves and pours like water. Potion of Giant Strength Potion, Rarity Varies When you drink this potion, your Strength score changes for 1 hour. The type of giant determines the score (see the table below). The potion has no effect on you if your Strength is equal to or greater than that score. This potion’s transparent liquid has floating in it a sliver of light resembling a giant’s fingernail. Potion Str. Rarity Potion of Giant Strength (hill) 21 Uncommon Potion of Giant Strength (frost or stone) 23 Rare Potion of Giant Strength (fire) 25 Rare Potion of Giant Strength (cloud) 27 Very Rare Potion of Giant Strength (storm) 29 Legendary Potion of Growth Potion, Uncommon When you drink this potion, you gain the “enlarge” effect of the Enlarge/Reduce spell for 10 minutes (no Concentration required). The red in the potion’s liquid continuously expands from a tiny bead to color the clear liquid around it and then contracts. Shaking the bottle fails to interrupt this process. Potions of Healing Potion, Rarity Varies You regain Hit Points when you drink this potion. The number of Hit Points depends on the potion’s rarity, as shown in the table below. Whatever its potency, the potion’s red liquid glimmers when agitated. Potion HP Regained Rarity Potion of Healing 2d4 + 2 Common Potion of Healing (greater)

4d4 + 4 Uncommon

Potion of Healing (superior)

8d4 + 8 Rare

Potion of Healing (supreme)

10d4 + 20 Very Rare

Potion of Heroism Potion, Rare When you drink this potion, you gain 10 Temporary Hit Points that last for 1 hour. For the same duration, you are under the effect of the Bless spell (no Concentration required). This potion’s blue liquid bubbles and steams as if boiling. Potion of Invisibility Potion, Rare This potion’s container looks empty but feels as though it holds liquid. When you drink the potion, you have the Invisible condition for 1 hour. The effect ends early if you make an attack roll, deal damage, or cast a spell. Potion of Invulnerability Potion, Rare For 1 minute after you drink this potion, you have Resistance to all damage. This potion’s syrupy liquid looks like liquefied iron. Potion of Longevity Potion, Very Rare When you drink this potion, your physical age is reduced by 1d6 + 6 years, to a minimum of 13 years. Each time you subsequently drink a Potion of Longevity, there is 10 percent cumulative chance that you instead age by 1d6 + 6 years. Suspended in this amber liquid is a tiny heart that, against all reason, is still beating. These ingredients vanish when the potion is opened. Potion of Mind Reading Potion, Rare When you drink this potion, you gain the effect of the Detect Thoughts spell (save DC 13) for 10 minutes (no Concentration required). This potion’s dense, purple liquid has an ovoid cloud of pink floating in it. Potion of Poison Potion, Uncommon This concoction looks, smells, and tastes like a Potion of Healing or another beneficial potion. However, it is actually poison masked by illusion magic. Identify reveals its true nature. If you drink this potion, you take 4d6 Poison damage and must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or have the Poisoned condition for 1 hour. Potion of Resistance Potion, Uncommon When you drink this potion, you have Resistance to one type of damage for 1 hour. The GM chooses the type or determines it randomly by rolling on the following table.

1d10 Damage Type 1d10 Damage Type

1 Acid 6 Necrotic 2 Cold 7 Poison 3 Fire 8 Psychic 4 Force 9 Radiant 5 Lightning 10 Thunder Potion of Speed Potion, Very Rare When you drink this potion, you gain the effect of the Haste spell for 1 minute (no Concentration required) without suffering the wave of lethargy that typically occurs when the effect ends. This potion’s yellow fluid is streaked with black and swirls on its own. Potion of Vitality Potion, Very Rare When you drink this potion, it removes any Exhaustion levels you have and ends the Poisoned condition on you. For the next 24 hours, you regain the maximum number of Hit Points for any Hit Point Die you spend. This potion’s crimson liquid regularly pulses with dull light, calling to mind a heartbeat. Potion of Water Breathing Potion, Uncommon You can breathe underwater for 24 hours after drinking this potion. This potion’s cloudy green fluid smells of the sea and has a jellyfish-like bubble floating in it.
