### Immovable Rod

*Rod, Uncommon*

This iron rod has a button on one end. You can take a Utilize action to press the button, which causes the rod to become magically fixed in place. Until you or another creature takes a Utilize action to push the button again, the rod doesn’t move, even if it defies gravity. The rod can hold up to 8,000 pounds of weight. More weight causes the rod to deactivate and fall. A creature can take a Utilize action to make a DC 30 Strength (Athletics) check, moving the fixed rod up to 10 feet on a successful check.

### Instant Fortress

*Wondrous Item, Rare (Requires Attunement)*

As a Magic action, you can place this 1-inch adamantine statuette on the ground and, using a command word, cause it to grow rapidly into a square adamantine tower. Repeating the command word causes the tower to revert to statuette form, which works only if the tower is empty. Each creature in the area where the tower appears is pushed to an unoccupied space outside but next to the tower. Objects in the area that aren’t being worn or carried are also pushed clear of the tower. The tower is 20 feet on a side and 30 feet high, with arrow slits on all sides and a battlement atop it. Its interior is divided into two floors, with a ladder, staircase, or ramp (your choice) connecting them. This ladder, staircase, or ramp ends at a trapdoor leading to the roof. When created, the tower has a single door at ground level on the side facing you. The door opens only at your command, which you can issue as a Bonus Action. It is immune to the Knock spell and similar magic. Magic prevents the tower from being tipped over. The roof, the door, and the walls each have AC 20; HP 100; Immunity to Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slashing damage except that which is dealt by siege equipment; and Resistance to all other damage. Shrinking the tower back down to statuette form doesn’t repair damage to the tower. Only a Wish spell can repair the tower (this use of the spell counts as replicating a spell of level 8 or lower). Each casting of Wish causes the tower to regain all its Hit Points. Ioun Stone Wondrous Item, Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement) Roughly marble sized, Ioun Stones are named after Ioun, a god of knowledge and prophecy revered on some worlds. Many types of Ioun Stones exist, each type a distinct combination of shape and color. When you take a Magic action to toss an Ioun Stone into the air, the stone orbits your head at a distance of 1d3 feet, conferring its benefit to you while doing so. You can have up to three Ioun Stones orbiting your head at the same time. Each Ioun Stone orbiting your head is considered to be an object you are wearing. The orbiting stone avoids contact with other creatures and objects, adjusting its orbit to avoid collisions and thwarting all attempts by other creatures to attack or snatch it. As a Utilize action, you can seize and stow any number of Ioun Stones orbiting your head. If your Attunement to an Ioun Stone ends while it’s orbiting your head, the stone falls as though you had dropped it. The type of stone determines its rarity and effects. Absorption (Very Rare). While this pale lavender ellipsoid orbits your head, you can take a Reaction to cancel a spell of level 4 or lower cast by a creature you can see. A canceled spell has no effect, and any resources used to cast it are wasted. Once the stone has canceled 20 levels of spells, it burns out, turns dull gray, and loses its magic. Agility (Very Rare). Your Dexterity increases by 2, to a maximum of 20, while this deep-red sphere orbits your head. Awareness (Rare). While this dark-blue rhomboid orbits your head, you have Advantage on Initiative rolls and Wisdom (Perception) checks. Fortitude (Very Rare). Your Constitution increases by 2, to a maximum of 20, while this pink rhomboid orbits your head. Greater Absorption (Legendary). While this marbled lavender and green ellipsoid orbits your head, you can take a Reaction to cancel a spell of level 8 or lower cast by a creature you can see. A canceled spell has no effect, and any resources used to cast it are wasted. Once the stone has canceled 20 levels of spells, it burns out, turns dull gray, and loses its magic. Insight (Very Rare). Your Wisdom increases by 2, to a maximum of 20, while this incandescent blue sphere orbits your head. Intellect (Very Rare). Your Intelligence increases by 2, to a maximum of 20, while this marbled scarlet and blue sphere orbits your head. Leadership (Very Rare). Your Charisma increases by 2, to a maximum of 20, while this marbled pink and green sphere orbits your head. Mastery (Legendary). Your Proficiency Bonus increases by 1 while this pale green prism orbits your head. Protection (Rare). You gain a +1 bonus to Armor Class while this dusty-rose prism orbits your head. Regeneration (Legendary). You regain 15 Hit Points at the end of each hour this pearly white spindle orbits your head if you have at least 1 Hit Point. Reserve (Rare). This vibrant purple prism stores spells cast into it, holding them until you use them. The stone can store up to 4 levels of spells at a time. When found, it contains 1d4 levels of stored spells chosen by the GM. Any creature can cast a spell of level 1 through 4 into the stone by touching it as the spell is cast. The spell has no effect, other than to be stored in the stone. If the stone can’t hold the spell, the spell is expended without effect. The level of the slot used to cast the spell determines how much space it uses. While this stone orbits your head, you can cast any spell stored in it. The spell uses the slot level, spell save DC, spell attack bonus, and spellcasting ability of the original caster but is otherwise treated as if you cast the spell. The spell cast from the stone is no longer stored in it, freeing up space. Strength (Very Rare). Your Strength increases by 2, to a maximum of 20, while this pale blue rhomboid orbits your head. Sustenance (Rare). You don’t need to eat or drink while this clear spindle orbits your head.

### Iron Bands

*Wondrous Item, Rare*

This rusty iron sphere measures 3 inches in diameter and weighs 1 pound. You can take a Magic action to throw the sphere at a Huge or smaller creature you can see within 60 feet of yourself. As the sphere moves through the air, it opens into a tangle of metal bands. Make a ranged attack roll with an attack bonus equal to your Dexterity modifier plus your Proficiency Bonus. On a hit, the target has the Restrained condition until you take a Bonus Action to issue a command that releases it. Doing so or missing with the attack causes the bands to contract and become a sphere once more. A creature that can touch the bands, including the one Restrained, can take an action to make a DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check to break the iron bands. On a successful check, the item is destroyed, and the Restrained creature is freed. On a failed check, any further attempts made by that creature automatically fail until 24 hours have elapsed. Once the bands are used, they can’t be used again until the next dawn.

### Iron Flask

*Wondrous Item, Legendary*

While holding this brass-stoppered iron flask, you can take a Magic action to target a creature that you can see within 60 feet of yourself. If the flask is empty and the target is native to a plane of existence other than the one you’re on, the target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or be trapped in the flask. If the target has been trapped by the flask before, it has Advantage on the save. Once trapped, a creature remains in the flask until released. The flask can hold only one creature at a time. A creature trapped in the flask doesn’t age and doesn’t need to breathe, eat, or drink. You can take a Magic action to remove the flask’s stopper and release the creature in the flask. The creature then obeys your commands for 1 hour, understanding those commands even if it doesn’t know the language in which the commands are given. If you issue no commands or give the creature a command that is likely to result in its death or imprisonment, it defends itself but otherwise takes no actions. At the end of the duration, the creature acts in accordance with its normal disposition and alignment. An Identify spell reveals if the flask contains a creature, but the only way to determine the type of creature is to open the flask. A newly discovered Iron Flask might already contain a creature chosen by the GM.
